Architecture.md, before:

# Ablativo Architecture
This document provides details on the technical aspects of the product, including a high-level presentation of the conceptual architecture and information about the software and hardware components.

The following paragraph briefly describes the execution flow of the service and gives a high-level overview of the overall components. 

1. The main flow of the mobile application starts with the interaction between the smartphone and the beacon sensors (one for each room) through the BLE protocol. 

2. When the visitor enters an area covered by a beacon, the mobile device recognizes the id of the sensor and sends it to the back-end deployed on EC2. 

3. The back-end searches in the DynamoDB database for the data of the corresponding room and a bot starts sending messages to the user's chat, addressing predefined questions and answers. The whole Q&A flow can be represented as a finite-state automaton where from a starter state, we can always arrive at the final state.

4. During the visit, both smartphone and embedded devices retrieve values from some sensors and store them into the database to reconstruct the activity/emotions of the user. The sensors are managed by IoT core.

5. At the end of the visit, all the data connected to the user are converted into musical notes and then used as input for a Neural Network to generates a melody.

6. At the same time, the dashboard for data analysis shows to the curator the environment telemetries and statics about the number of visitors inside the museum. The interaction with the cloud services is managed by AWS amplify, and in particular the authentication service by Cognito.

Now we have a general overview and so we can go into the details of the components that make up the leading architecture.

![img](./img/architecture.png)

---
### Table of contents
* [Mobile application for visitors](#app)
* [Data analytics dashboard for the curator](#dboard)
* [Amazon web service](#aws)
    * [IoT Core](#iot)
    * [DynamoDB](#dyno)
    * [EC2 (application back end)](#ec2)
    * [Cognito](#cognito)
    * [Amplify](#amply)
* [Sensors](#sensors)
    * [Beacon + Environmental telemetries](#beacon)
    * [Smartphone Sensors](#smartsens)
    * [Simulated Heart rate](#simsens)
* [User Activity recognition](#uaer)
* [Music generation](#rnn)
* [Previous versions](#prev)


---
## <a id="app"></a>Mobile application for visitors

It is an open-source application available on our git repository and provided as apk. We are talking about a hybrid app developed on **React Native**, a cross-platform mobile development framework that allows programmers to create apps for both iOS and Android in one simple language, JavaScript. Indeed React Native runs on React, an open-source library for building UI with JavaScript, this framework through a set of components builds a mobile application with a native look and feel. Due to the pretty simple learning curve and well-balanced performance React Native it’s the perfect compromise for our application.

---
## <a id="dboard"></a>Data analytics dashboard for the curator
Management and monitoring module, practically speaking the admin console. It is implemented as a **React + Material UI** web application so that to have a fully responsive and accessible from everywhere tool, with great performances and a pleasant Material Design interface. It provides information about:
* The number of visitors inside the museum using the mobile application;
* The current environmental status of the museum, showing the telemetries collected by the embedded sensors;
* Details about the current status of each room and artwork;

In future releases, it may include other functionalities, such as a calendar, Q&A fast personalization, and so on.


---
## <a id="aws"></a>Amazon web service
Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud platform, providing a variety of basic abstract technical infrastructure and distributed computing building blocks and tools.
Let's see the single compontents used by Ablativo


### <a id="iot"></a>IoT Core
AWS IoT Core is a managed cloud service that lets connected devices easily and securely interact with cloud applications and other devices. It can support billions of devices and trillions of messages, and can process and route those messages to AWS endpoints and to other devices reliably and securely.
It provides automated configuration and authentication upon a device’s first connection to AWS IoT Core, as well as end-to-end encryption throughout all points of connection, so that data is never exchanged between devices and AWS IoT Core without proven identity.
Finally, the latest state of a connected device so that it can be read or set at anytime, making super easy to configure a failure detector.

### <a id="dyno"></a>DynamoDB 
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value and document database that delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale. It's a fully managed, multiregion, multimaster, durable database with built-in security, backup and restore, and in-memory caching for internet-scale applications.
DynamoDB supports ACID transactions to enable you to build business-critical applications at scale. DynamoDB encrypts all data by default and provides fine-grained identity and access control on all the tables.

However, given the price, for possible deployment, we may use **Amazon Timestream** for the telemetries (currently not available for educate accounts).


### <a id="ec2"></a>EC2 
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.
Here there is the application Back-end, fully developed on ***Node.js***, an open-source asynchronous event-driven JavaScript runtime designed to build scalable network applications.
Its intrinsic feature of non-blocking I/O, the fantastic community, and overall performance made Node.js the perfect choice for our application. Indeed a Node.js app is run in a single process without creating a new thread for each request and the provided set of asynchronous I/O primitives prevent JavaScript code from blocking.


### <a id="cognito"></a>Cognito
Amazon Cognito lets add user sign-up, sign-in, and access control to web and mobile apps quickly and easily.
In our case, it is used only for the curators' authentication in the Dashboard. Moreover, given the fact that only the museum curators can access the web application, the registration form is blocked, and only the admin can add new users from the AWS console.


### <a id="amply"></a>Amplify
AWS Amplify is an end-to-end solution that enables mobile and front-end web developers to build and deploy secure, scalable full-stack applications.
This framework provides different components that simplify the configuration of various application components. In our case:
- *Authentication* for user registration & authentication
- *PubSub* to manage messaging & subscriptions (for sensors)

To access the database, we may use *API (GraphQL or REST)*. However, the educate account does not allow us to use GraphQL. Therefore, we decided to implement the APIs on the EC2 back-end (the REST version implies Lamba functions that are just more expensive for this simple task).


### <a id="why"></a> Why AWS and a full cloud infrastructure?  
It is scalable, reliable, and gives a secure global computing infrastructure.

The number of museum visitors may change quickly, depending on the day of the week, month, or year. Thus, Auto Scaling and Elastic Load Balancing allow the application to scale up or down based on demand. This approach leads to significant cost reduction for the compute power, storage, and other resources, with no long-term contracts or up-front commitments. 
Moreover, AWS utilizes an end-to-end approach to secure and harden our infrastructure, including physical, operational, and software measures.

---
## <a id="sensors"></a>Sensors

### <a id="beacon"></a>Beacon + Environmental telemetries

Both functionalities are imlemented on a single a board, running **Mbed-OS**.

* Beacon uses the proximity perception of *Bluetooth Low Energy* technology to transmit a unique universal identifier (UUID), which will then be read by a specific app or operating system. Once the signal is read, the app can perform various scheduled actions. 

* The environmental telemetries collected by the board are sent to the cloud using the MQTT protocol, through the wifi module. The benefits of this procedure are twofold. Indeed, aside from the obvious environmental check, these messages also act as alive Heartbeats for a simple failure detector. The data collected are
    - `Temperature`
    - `Humidity` 
    - `Pressure` 

   
    



The board used for the *Proof of work* is the **B-L475E-IOT01A**, which is an STMicroelectronics Discovery Kit for IoT Node that easily allows development of applications with direct connection to cloud servers. The Discovery kit enables a wide diversity of applications by exploiting low-power communication, multiway sensing and ARM® Cortex® -M4 core-based STM32L4 Series features. The support for Arduino Uno V3 and PMOD connectivity provides unlimited expansion capabilities with a large choice of specialized add-on boards. More information about this board can be found [here](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/b-l475e-iot01a.html).

<img src="./img/stm-board.png" width="500" />


Another possible alternative may be the `NUCLEO-F401RE` STM32 Nucleo board, with the application of these three components: 
* `X-NUCLEO-IDB05A1` BLE expansion board
* `X-NUCLEO-IDW01M1` Wifi expansion board
* `X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2` sensors expansion board

<img src="./img/beacon.png" width="500" />

However, we opted for the first option, given the higher reliability. The drivers for this expansion boards are mostly deprecated, and the documentation advices to avoid them for new design. Moreover, it does not provide a true random numbers generator, damaging the TLS protocol.




### <a id="smartsens"></a>Smartphone Sensors
We will periodically retrieve values from 2 smartphone sensors:
* `Accelerometer` 
* `Gyroscope`


To retrieve them we use React Native framework sensors API. These values are necessary to detect the user actions, and therefore to generate the final melody.


### <a id="simsens"></a>Simulated Heart Rate
`Heart Rate` sensors is for now simulated with a script that randomly, and periodically, sends the values to the cloud.


#### NOTE
Why not MQTT-SN for the board? It works over UDP, which is an "unreliable" protocol. If a message gets lost, the failure detector can wrongly detect a crash. Thus, since we send messages every 10/15 minutes only, there is no reason to increase the complexity of the system (requiring intermediate broker and transparent gateway), and relax our strong assumptions of prefect links and synchronous system.


---
## <a id="uaer"></a>User Activity recognition
In this part we deal with the technical aspects we have in mind to create a personalized melody for the user.

#### Data Collection
The first thing to do is to extract the values from the sensors. We decided to use:
* ***3 ambient sensors***: `Temperature`, `Humidity` and `Pressure` with STM board. These aren't personal values but they affect the emotional condition of the users.
* ***3 personal sensors***: `Accelerometer`, `Gyroscope`, `Heart Rate Sensor`. These values are different for every user because they depend on the activity they are doing. 

#### Convert data into musical notes
To convert data in music notes we use:

* [*NoteSequence*](https://github.com/magenta/note-seq): representation of the musical notes

* [*MidiWriterJS*](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midi-writer-js) JavaScript library providing an API for generating expressive multi-track MIDI files.

---
## <a id="rnn"></a>Music generation
In the world of machine learning there are many ways to generate music. For our purposes we choose these technologies:

* [*Magenta*](https://hello-magenta.glitch.me): Magenta.js is an open source JavaScript API for using the pre-trained Magenta models in the browser. It is built with TensorFlow.js, which allows for fast, GPU-accelerated inference.

* [*MusicRNN*](): you give it a NoteSequence, and it continues it in the style of your original NoteSequence. There are different models to use, we choose: [*MelodyRNN*](https://github.com/magenta/magenta/tree/master/magenta/models/melody_rnn) with the `mono_rnn` model. This configuration acts as a baseline for melody generation with an [LSTM model](https://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/). It uses basic one-hot encoding to represent extracted melodies as input to the LSTM. While `basic_rnn` is trained by transposing all inputs to a narrow range, `mono_rnn` is able to use the full 128 MIDI pitches.

---
## <a id="prev"></a>Previous versions

* [Architecture - delivery 1](https://github.com/Ablativo/ablativo/blob/1st-delivery/Architecture.md)

* [Architecture - delivery 2](https://github.com/Ablativo/ablativo/blob/2nd-delivery/Architecture.md)

Commit message:

fix service flow on architecture

Architecture.md, after:

# Ablativo Architecture
This document provides details on the technical aspects of the product, including a high-level presentation of the conceptual architecture and information about the software and hardware components.

The following paragraph briefly describes the execution flow of the service and gives a high-level overview of the overall components. 

1. The main flow of the mobile application starts with the interaction between the smartphone and the beacon sensors (one for each room) through the BLE protocol.

2. When the visitor enters an area covered by a beacon, the mobile device recognizes the id of the sensor and sends it to the back-end deployed on EC2.

3. The back-end searches in the Dynamodb database for the data of the corresponding room and a bot starts sending messages to the user's chat, addressing predefined questions and answers. The whole Q&A flow can be represented as a finite-state automaton where from a starter state, we can always arrive at the final state.

4. During the visit, both smartphone and embedded devices retrieve values from some sensors. The environmental telemetries are stored inside the database, while the personal visitor telemetries are stored only inside the smartphone, for privacy reasons (and reducing the service final cost). The sensors are managed by Iot-core.

5. At the end of the visit, all the data connected to the visitor are used to reconstruct his/her activity/emotions and so converted into musical notes, then used as input for a Neural Network to generates a melody.

6. At the same time, the dashboard for data analysis shows to the curator the environment telemetries and statics about the number of visitors inside the museum. The interaction with the cloud services is managed by AWS amplify, and in particular the authentication service by Cognito.

Now we have a general overview and so we can go into the details of the components that make up the leading architecture.

![img](./img/architecture.png)

---
### Table of contents
* [Mobile application for visitors](#app)
* [Data analytics dashboard for the curator](#dboard)
* [Amazon web service](#aws)
    * [IoT Core](#iot)
    * [DynamoDB](#dyno)
    * [EC2 (application back end)](#ec2)
    * [Cognito](#cognito)
    * [Amplify](#amply)
* [Sensors](#sensors)
    * [Beacon + Environmental telemetries](#beacon)
    * [Smartphone Sensors](#smartsens)
    * [Simulated Heart rate](#simsens)
* [User Activity recognition](#uaer)
* [Music generation](#rnn)
* [Previous versions](#prev)


---
## <a id="app"></a>Mobile application for visitors

It is an open-source application available on our git repository and provided as apk. We are talking about a hybrid app developed on **React Native**, a cross-platform mobile development framework that allows programmers to create apps for both iOS and Android in one simple language, JavaScript. Indeed React Native runs on React, an open-source library for building UI with JavaScript, this framework through a set of components builds a mobile application with a native look and feel. Due to the pretty simple learning curve and well-balanced performance React Native it’s the perfect compromise for our application.

---
## <a id="dboard"></a>Data analytics dashboard for the curator
Management and monitoring module, practically speaking the admin console. It is implemented as a **React + Material UI** web application so that to have a fully responsive and accessible from everywhere tool, with great performances and a pleasant Material Design interface. It provides information about:
* The number of visitors inside the museum using the mobile application;
* The current environmental status of the museum, showing the telemetries collected by the embedded sensors;
* Details about the current status of each room and artwork;

In future releases, it may include other functionalities, such as a calendar, Q&A fast personalization, and so on.


---
## <a id="aws"></a>Amazon web service
Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud platform, providing a variety of basic abstract technical infrastructure and distributed computing building blocks and tools.
Let's see the single compontents used by Ablativo


### <a id="iot"></a>IoT Core
AWS IoT Core is a managed cloud service that lets connected devices easily and securely interact with cloud applications and other devices. It can support billions of devices and trillions of messages, and can process and route those messages to AWS endpoints and to other devices reliably and securely.
It provides automated configuration and authentication upon a device’s first connection to AWS IoT Core, as well as end-to-end encryption throughout all points of connection, so that data is never exchanged between devices and AWS IoT Core without proven identity.
Finally, the latest state of a connected device so that it can be read or set at anytime, making super easy to configure a failure detector.

### <a id="dyno"></a>DynamoDB 
Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value and document database that delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale. It's a fully managed, multiregion, multimaster, durable database with built-in security, backup and restore, and in-memory caching for internet-scale applications.
DynamoDB supports ACID transactions to enable you to build business-critical applications at scale. DynamoDB encrypts all data by default and provides fine-grained identity and access control on all the tables.

However, given the price, for possible deployment, we may use **Amazon Timestream** for the telemetries (currently not available for educate accounts).


### <a id="ec2"></a>EC2 
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers.
Here there is the application Back-end, fully developed on ***Node.js***, an open-source asynchronous event-driven JavaScript runtime designed to build scalable network applications.
Its intrinsic feature of non-blocking I/O, the fantastic community, and overall performance made Node.js the perfect choice for our application. Indeed a Node.js app is run in a single process without creating a new thread for each request and the provided set of asynchronous I/O primitives prevent JavaScript code from blocking.


### <a id="cognito"></a>Cognito
Amazon Cognito lets add user sign-up, sign-in, and access control to web and mobile apps quickly and easily.
In our case, it is used only for the curators' authentication in the Dashboard. Moreover, given the fact that only the museum curators can access the web application, the registration form is blocked, and only the admin can add new users from the AWS console.


### <a id="amply"></a>Amplify
AWS Amplify is an end-to-end solution that enables mobile and front-end web developers to build and deploy secure, scalable full-stack applications.
This framework provides different components that simplify the configuration of various application components. In our case:
- *Authentication* for user registration & authentication
- *PubSub* to manage messaging & subscriptions (for sensors)

To access the database, we may use *API (GraphQL or REST)*. However, the educate account does not allow us to use GraphQL. Therefore, we decided to implement the APIs on the EC2 back-end (the REST version implies Lamba functions that are just more expensive for this simple task).


### <a id="why"></a> Why AWS and a full cloud infrastructure?  
It is scalable, reliable, and gives a secure global computing infrastructure.

The number of museum visitors may change quickly, depending on the day of the week, month, or year. Thus, Auto Scaling and Elastic Load Balancing allow the application to scale up or down based on demand. This approach leads to significant cost reduction for the compute power, storage, and other resources, with no long-term contracts or up-front commitments. 
Moreover, AWS utilizes an end-to-end approach to secure and harden our infrastructure, including physical, operational, and software measures.

---
## <a id="sensors"></a>Sensors

### <a id="beacon"></a>Beacon + Environmental telemetries

Both functionalities are imlemented on a single a board, running **Mbed-OS**.

* Beacon uses the proximity perception of *Bluetooth Low Energy* technology to transmit a unique universal identifier (UUID), which will then be read by a specific app or operating system. Once the signal is read, the app can perform various scheduled actions. 

* The environmental telemetries collected by the board are sent to the cloud using the MQTT protocol, through the wifi module. The benefits of this procedure are twofold. Indeed, aside from the obvious environmental check, these messages also act as alive Heartbeats for a simple failure detector. The data collected are
    - `Temperature`
    - `Humidity` 
    - `Pressure` 

   
    



The board used for the *Proof of work* is the **B-L475E-IOT01A**, which is an STMicroelectronics Discovery Kit for IoT Node that easily allows development of applications with direct connection to cloud servers. The Discovery kit enables a wide diversity of applications by exploiting low-power communication, multiway sensing and ARM® Cortex® -M4 core-based STM32L4 Series features. The support for Arduino Uno V3 and PMOD connectivity provides unlimited expansion capabilities with a large choice of specialized add-on boards. More information about this board can be found [here](https://www.st.com/en/evaluation-tools/b-l475e-iot01a.html).

<img src="./img/stm-board.png" width="500" />


Another possible alternative may be the `NUCLEO-F401RE` STM32 Nucleo board, with the application of these three components: 
* `X-NUCLEO-IDB05A1` BLE expansion board
* `X-NUCLEO-IDW01M1` Wifi expansion board
* `X-NUCLEO-IKS01A2` sensors expansion board

<img src="./img/beacon.png" width="500" />

However, we opted for the first option, given the higher reliability. The drivers for this expansion boards are mostly deprecated, and the documentation advices to avoid them for new design. Moreover, it does not provide a true random numbers generator, damaging the TLS protocol.




### <a id="smartsens"></a>Smartphone Sensors
We will periodically retrieve values from 2 smartphone sensors:
* `Accelerometer` 
* `Gyroscope`


To retrieve them we use React Native framework sensors API. These values are necessary to detect the user actions, and therefore to generate the final melody.


### <a id="simsens"></a>Simulated Heart Rate
`Heart Rate` sensors is for now simulated with a script that randomly, and periodically, sends the values to the cloud.


#### NOTE
Why not MQTT-SN for the board? It works over UDP, which is an "unreliable" protocol. If a message gets lost, the failure detector can wrongly detect a crash. Thus, since we send messages every 10/15 minutes only, there is no reason to increase the complexity of the system (requiring intermediate broker and transparent gateway), and relax our strong assumptions of prefect links and synchronous system.


---
## <a id="uaer"></a>User Activity recognition
In this part we deal with the technical aspects we have in mind to create a personalized melody for the user.

#### Data Collection
The first thing to do is to extract the values from the sensors. We decided to use:
* ***3 ambient sensors***: `Temperature`, `Humidity` and `Pressure` with STM board. These aren't personal values but they affect the emotional condition of the users.
* ***3 personal sensors***: `Accelerometer`, `Gyroscope`, `Heart Rate Sensor`. These values are different for every user because they depend on the activity they are doing. 

#### Convert data into musical notes
To convert data in music notes we use:

* [*NoteSequence*](https://github.com/magenta/note-seq): representation of the musical notes

* [*MidiWriterJS*](https://www.npmjs.com/package/midi-writer-js) JavaScript library providing an API for generating expressive multi-track MIDI files.

---
## <a id="rnn"></a>Music generation
In the world of machine learning there are many ways to generate music. For our purposes we choose these technologies:

* [*Magenta*](https://hello-magenta.glitch.me): Magenta.js is an open source JavaScript API for using the pre-trained Magenta models in the browser. It is built with TensorFlow.js, which allows for fast, GPU-accelerated inference.

* [*MusicRNN*](): you give it a NoteSequence, and it continues it in the style of your original NoteSequence. There are different models to use, we choose: [*MelodyRNN*](https://github.com/magenta/magenta/tree/master/magenta/models/melody_rnn) with the `mono_rnn` model. This configuration acts as a baseline for melody generation with an [LSTM model](https://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/). It uses basic one-hot encoding to represent extracted melodies as input to the LSTM. While `basic_rnn` is trained by transposing all inputs to a narrow range, `mono_rnn` is able to use the full 128 MIDI pitches.

---
## <a id="prev"></a>Previous versions

* [Architecture - delivery 1](https://github.com/Ablativo/ablativo/blob/1st-delivery/Architecture.md)

* [Architecture - delivery 2](https://github.com/Ablativo/ablativo/blob/2nd-delivery/Architecture.md)
